Often do you need to defer to the Chrome
Dev Tools when you work on the React
application what are the cases.
Let's say,
when is the React profiler not enough?
>> I mean, so it's tricky, right?
Like insofar that I'm working
on a JavaScript application, so
stuff like the debugger and
break points and console logs.
It is tricky for me to delineate cuz
I am in them all the time, right?
I would say that I still just generally
did my code behave the way I wanted it to,
stuff like the elements in the console and
some of the other pieces
are still incredibly useful to me.
I think it's when I know I have a problem.
And for me, part of the reason it's really
hard for me to answer that question is cuz
if any of the tools are open, I'm still
getting those green flashing boxes.
So I'm simultaneously
looking at my console and
getting information from
the React tools at the same time.
So for me it's ubiquitous in both
cases which is one of the things I
really like about the tool.
>> And the second question is how much
overhead does the benchmarking itself add?
So let's say if I'm noticing
a particular number,
do I need to discount it by a certain
percent when assuming it runs in-
>> I don't know if there's a heuristic.
It is multiple times slower, right?
I've even heard the word
exponential thrown around,
that sounds like hyperbole, right?
But I think it is saying that it is
maybe two to three times slower is
probably fair.
>> So the general heuristic I think we
could agree on is that if you're running
and you see proportionally that this has
decreased, that means you've improved.
But the exam it probably will be even
more performant once you run production
build without the overhead of the.
>> Yeah, and it depends on the size
of the code base and stuff like that.
There is a way to build a production
at least in create React app.
And there's different ways for
every different setup,
whether you're using Vite,
Webpack, your own thing.
There are various ways to also make a
production build that has the profiling in
it, right?
So you can get a closer
to a real number and
the regular Chrome tools will
work on a production build,
you just won't get a cheat sheet
to what component it is, right?
The thing that is costing you all that
extra time is all the information that
makes it useful.
But yeah, to your point, especially if one
has a system where they can kind of a lot,
they have metrics in their
build process to be like,
it doesn't necessarily matter if it was
60 milliseconds in development mode,
if it is 12% worse than
it was last sprint.
Yeah, that's still a problem right and so
the relative numbers are still useful for
figuring out if you
have an emerging issue.
But yeah, it's just one of those
things which is the exact number,
you shouldn't take particularly
seriously because it will be inflated.
First, we're gonna talk about
Steve's Golden Rule of Performance,
which I alluded to earlier and ruined.
I forgot that I made that animation
because I felt it was that important.
We will talk about the corollaries
doing this, which is,
anything you don't do is faster.
It's like preventing renders but
also preventing memoization,
preventing renders, everything you
don't do is faster than doing it and
that's ultimately what
performance comes down to.
It's not like computer spending
extra time thinking and
pondering life, it is doing extra work
that you have deemed unnecessary, right?
Or as we'll get to the very
end of this course,
it is doing work that is necessary at
a time that is not optimal, right?
And where we end at the very end and
just kinda like paint the picture,
which is sometimes you're doing a thing
that, yeah, it takes a lot, right?
What the concurrency APIs in React do that
we'll see towards is they allow you to
say like, hey, but first, maybe we react
to their actual typing and clicking.
And then we can go back to doing
the expensive thing, right?
Because that's really what we care about,
right?
Long things might take long.
Absolutely, but
we wanna get to the point where, okay, but
our thing shouldn't totally freeze up,
right?
And we should still respond to
keystrokes and stuff along those lines.
But yeah, generally speaking,
the recurring theme is not
rendering is faster than rendering.
Not memorizing faster than memorizing.
Loading stuff later when you need it is
faster than loading in the very beginning.
Yes, right.
This is all true.
Awesome, and so the color is,
as I kinda mentioned,
not doing stuff as faster than doing
stuff, checking to see if you can skip
doing stuff is sometimes actual work
that was slower than doing it, right?
And this is why the measuring matters.
If you think like, the thing's rendering,
it shouldn't totally render.
You should look at that and see how much
it cost to stop it from rendering because
maybe the act of rendering was
faster than memorizing it right?
And that's why we use the tools, that's
why we use objective truth rather than
just like I've written a blog post,
I should totally do this.
Yep, and then, yeah, these things we'll
see in the kind of third chapter of
the course,
which is putting stuff off is better.
And then lastly, this is new to React 18.
In React 17, everything was urgent, right?
Well, it's one of those things,
everything was equal.
And if everything's urgent,
nothing's urgent.
And so React 18 gives us the ability to
delay between, this is important, this can
wait, and we'll see how to use it in cases
where we're stuck with some kind of issue.